Episode 16, George.
When we landed at Ankhaz airport, we were sad to see that it was even more run down
than before, with paint peeling off the walls and a stench coming from the toilets.
But, to be fair, that was why Miki asked me to come here – to help get money to
build a new airport and develop the oilfields so that he could develop the country.
Once again, there were only three or four other passengers on the
plane and we were waved through immigration after showing our visas.
But this time, Miki had arranged a driver for us, and as we
stepped outside, we saw two stocky men in uniforms waving to us.
They were standing next to what looked like a Russian Lada with an Ankhaz flag planted on the front.
“I am Sergiv, your driver,” the first man said, holding out
his hand for me to shake, “and this is Andrev, my assistant.”
“Why does a driver need an assistant?” I muttered to myself.
Sergiv seemed to understand me and chuckled, but avoided answering my question.
“Please,” he said, holding the door open for Elizabeth.
As she got in the car, he explained, “Miki will meet you at 5 o’clock.
I will take you to the palace and you can rest first.”
I looked at my watch.
It was midday, local time.
“Since we’ve got time to kill, why don’t we drive around for a bit?
We could stop off and try some of the local food,” I suggested.
Sergiv said something to Andrev and Andrev replied with a single
word, ‘nyit’, which I guesed must have been ‘no’ in Ankhaz.
“No,” Sergiv told us.
“We go straight to palace.”
However, Elizabeth shocked me by reaching over and
grabbing the steering wheel before Sergiv could drive off.
She produced a photo of the both of us with Miki – from our last trip – and showed it to the men.
“It’s a simple request,” she said.
“We want to go somewhere in the city and try the local food.
I’m sure Miki wants to hear that you made us comfortable.”
Andrev’s face became crimson red, but he nodded to Sergiv and off we went.
The city of Ankhaz was completely dilapidated.
The road was full of potholes and even Miki’s propaganda posters were fading.
Finally, we arrived at a small, shabby café.
I knew that the driver and his “assistant” wanted to make a good impression.
Was this the most pleasant place they could find?
As we went inside, all conversation stopped and the other diners looked down at
their food, refusing to make eye contact as soon as they saw Andrev’s uniform.
The two men ordered us coffee, cabbage soup and a beef stew, something like a goulash.
The coffee was awful, but the food was surprisingly tasty.
When Andrev was in the toilet, I took the chance to go outside unaccompanied for a smoke.
There, I tried to engage people in conversation.
“Good afternoon,” I said to a man passing by.
He stopped and looked at me, then he looked behind me, a
look of panic appeared on his face and he hurried away.
I turned around to see Andrev standing there with his arms crossed.
Who was this guy?
He was no “assistant”, that was for sure.